<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
                      "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>McEnnis Preface</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../style/style.css"/>
        <link href='http://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Yellowtail' rel='stylesheet' type='text/css'/>
        <link href='http://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Yanone+Kaffeesatz:300,400,200' rel='stylesheet' type='text/css'/>
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="header">
            <h1>The Restoration of Nell Nelson</h1>
            <h2>An Investigation of the <i>Chicago Daily Times</i>' Series: "City Slave Girls"</h2>
            <div id="menu">
                <ul>
                    <li><a href="../index.xhtml">Home</a></li>
                    <li><a href="../about.xhtml">About</a></li>
                    <li><a href="../articles.xhtml">Articles</a></li>
                    <li><a href="../books.xhtml">Books</a></li>
                    <li><a href="../code.xhtml">Methodolody and Data Analysis</a></li>
                </ul>
            </div>
        </div>
        <div id="preface">
            <h2><a href="McEnnis_TOC_Javascript.xhtml">Table of Contents</a></h2>
            <h2>AUTHOR’S PREFACE.</h2>
            <p>IN the following pages will be found a record which, in many places, amounts to an indictment
                of our whole system and our whole civilization. The position of the White Slaves in our factories is something which can only
                    be described as disgraceful. In going on as we are going -- in not stopping the abuses to
                which female labor is subjected here at our very doors, we are doing what is at once a
                foolish and a dangerous thing. We are sowing what we must reap; and as long as what is
                called the dangerous element in this community can point out the rank injustice to which we
                    subject female labor, so long will they have in their hands an argument which we cannot
                meet. These things can be made straight and just and fair. We can with little effort do
                justice, and it is the purpose of these pages to excite those who can do right; to do
                it.</p> <p>With the facts in the case spread before a candid world there should be little
                    question about what should be done. It is not an issue as to what women should be paid for their
                        work. Until they themselves learn how to organize, they must expect bad treatment in that
                        direction. Nobody can say that an employer must pay a dollar for that which is offered to him at
                        fifty cents. But we can demand that proper care, proper sanitation and proper treatment shall be
                        accorded to every working woman.</p> <p>As far as the rest of the matter goes, female labor must
                            organize if it wishes to do anything. Organized labor is the end to which the industry of
                            the civilized world is tending, and every year the movement becomes more and more certain of
                            ultimate success. There have been checks and drawbacks, but the force which impels the
                            workingman forward to a general union with all of his fellows has been constant and
                            irresistible.</p>
            <p>As we have endeavored to show in the following pages, there is a necessity for general labor
                organization, such as has been never before known in the world. The age is one of
                combination, both of the working class and the employing class. Unless either
                side unites in a strong, well-disciplined union, it must go to the wall. The proper reply to
                the corporation, the pool and the trust is the trades-union, the trade federation, and some
                society which shall bind into one homogeneous, one-ideaed and perfectly-disciplined mass the
                whole of the working element in the United States.</p>
            <p>To this end experiments have been made and will be made. The Trades Union Congress
                of England; the Knights of Labor of America; similar
                societies on the Continent, -- are all evidences of the necessities for organization and the
                attempts which men are making in that direction. But all of these social forces are new and
                their leaders inexperienced. Often the right road can not be found until after all the wrong
                ones have been tried. We find society provided with a new weapon, but it is only out of many
                mistakes, out of much loss and suffering, that we will arrive at the knowledge of its proper
                use and its correct purpose. We have nearly settled the question of what the trades-union
                can do, and what it cannot do -- we have surveyed it,weighed it, appraised it. It occupies a
                definite place in our calculations. It is no longer an unknown quantity in the problem. But
                the force, the defensive and the offensive powers of thoroughly organized national labor are
                not known, nor will they be in this century.</p>
            <p>One great society after another will arise, and take up the work which its predecessor laid
                down. Each will avoid the rocks upon which the earlier ones went to pieces; the unknown seas
                of organization are being charted surely, if slowly, and the people are coming to know where
                the dangers lie. It is part of the history of human effort that moves in wave -- now coming
                in with a high tide, and again ebbing out so that it seems that almost all the advance has
                been lost. This is, however, seeming rather than reality. With Tennyson
                we"-- Know that through the ages one increasing purpose runs And the thoughts of men
                    are widened with the process of the suns." Even if the men of the present day do
                not find themselves able to mobilize, equip and maintain the army of labor, doubt it not
                that their sons and their daughters will.</p>
           
            <p>There are elements of strength which have not even been touched by the present leaders,
                although of course they have been recognized, and efforts toward getting them have been
                made. Take the elections, for instance. There were in the United
                    States, in 1880, 17,392,099 people engaged in all kinds of
                occupations. The voting population was, white and black, 12,830,349 for the same year; and the President, James A. Garfield,
                was elected by the ballots of 4,449,053 citizens. Cleveland
                four years later was chosen by the votes of 4,911,017 men; and
               this year a President will be made by the votes of not more than 5,500,000 persons.
                Now can any person believe that there are not in America much more
                than 6,000,000 or 7,000,000 of citizens who would be willing to come together on a labor
                platform and for labor candidates, if they could have confidence in the integrity of the men
                and the honesty of the measures. The George movement in
                New York proved at once the strength and the weakness of the
                laborers and the friends of labor. They were able to do a great deal even with their
                imperfect machinery of organization, and the disappearance of this vote in a subsequent
                election showed that there was nothing permanent in the methods by which it had been called
                out. It was a flash in the pan, but it proved something that labor should not willingly
                forget.</p>
            <p>The road to power in this country lies but in one direction -- through the ballot box. That
                is our final tribunal of appeal, and its decisions we must accept heartily, willingly,
                loyally. When organized labor raises its voice in this court, the world will listen with
                respect. But until that time comes, the workingman’s duty is still clear. Neither
               Rome nor organized labor were, or will be, built in a day. The
                movement must be pushed firmly and guided wisely. There must be statesmanship and diplomacy,
                as well as sacrifice and loyalty. Labor and capital must both listen to the voice of public
                opinion in America, for both are weak, and properly weak, before it.
                It is our ruler, whether we are rich or poor, eminent or humble; and it is a wise ruler,
                whose commands are born of truth and justice and carried out in strictness and mercy. When
                public opinion is with labor organization and its methods, then, and not until then, will
                the labor problem be solved.</p>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>