Helen Cusach's undercover investigative reporting exposed the unsanitary working conditions and the cruel mistreatment of the women and children in Chicago's manufacturing industry during the late 19th century. Under the pseudonym Nell Nelson, Cusach's "City Slave Girls" series was published by *The Chicago Times* in late July 1888. Cusach's distinct satirical and witty writing caused an immediate political and social agitation. The uproar caused some of Chicago's most prominent men to publicly react. This included responses from Chicago's governor John Altgeld, circuit court judge O.H. Horton, the president of the Chicago Board of Trade Charles Hutchinson and the vice president of the First National Bank Lyman Cage, among others. Owners of the textile mills, meat-packing factories and other commodity producing industries scrutinized in the series recognized the threat of Cusach's work, with one manufacturing company ultimately suing the paper for misrepresentation. A short time after the front-page series was published and within the same year, the Barkley Publishing Company printed an abridged version of the series in a book titled *City Slave Girls*. A different author, John McEnnis, also included parts of the series in his 1888 pro-union book *The White Slave Girls of Free America*. The series took off; later reprinted in the New York *World* and referenced by labor and women's rights activists, such as the Illinois Woman's Alliance. Nell Nelson and the series became known nation-wide; yet, presently there is little reference to her in the discussion of American industrialization or investigative reporting. Her work is superseded by that of Upton Sinclair and Nellie Bly.  
The Restoration of Nell Nelson project aims to completely digitize Cusach's series making the entire text of the newspaper articles available as searchable TEI constrained XML. Our current system of grammatical markup and the corresponding SVG visualization display the uniqueness of Cusach's language. This semester this markup will be used to provide quantitative data comparing the changes made to the series when it was republished. Our team suspects that Cusach's distinct vocabulary was the cause of the series original popularity and we speculate that the alterations made to the distributed book publications left out details that would have kept the series as a memorable exposé to this day. Please visit our [site](http://nelson.newtfire.org/).