<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
                      "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>The Restoration of Nell Nelson</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style/style.css"/>
        <link href='http://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Yellowtail' rel='stylesheet' type='text/css'/>
        <link href='http://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Yanone+Kaffeesatz:300,400,200' rel='stylesheet' type='text/css'/>
    </head>
    <body>
        <div id="header">
            <h1>The Restoration of Nell Nelson</h1>
            <h2>An Investigation of the <i>Chicago Daily Times</i>' Series: "City Slave Girls"</h2>
            <div id="menu">
                <ul>
                    <li><a href="index.xhtml">Home</a></li>
                    <li><a href="about.xhtml">About</a></li>
                    <li><a href="articles.xhtml">Articles</a></li>
                    <li><a href="books.xhtml">Books</a></li>
                    <li><a href="code.xhtml">Methodology and Data Analysis</a></li>
                </ul>
            </div>
        </div>
        <div id="content_about">
            <h2>Project Development</h2>
            <p>
                This project seeks to restore Nell Nelson’s instrumental work in exposing the cruel and unsanitary working conditions of Chicago’s manufacturing industry of the late nineteenth century. Nelson’s series, “City Slave Girls,” was published in The Chicago Daily Times in late-July, 1888. Nelson was a pioneer of investigative reporting and provided ground-breaking work in Chicago. The series completely exposed the mistreatment of the women and children that worked in Chicago’s manufacturing industries. The success of her series is a bewilderment considering the extensive inversion of social norms represented in the writing of her exposé. The “City Slave Girls” series put into question the practices of the most prestigious men of Chicago; yet, Nell Nelson was a woman unable to even vote due to the gender restraints of her time. Through her satirical and witty writing, Nelson beat the adversity of being a female news reporter and the publication of the series gained attention from Chicago’s political representatives along with the owners of the very industries she scrutinized.  Although the significance of the series was recognized at the time of publication and for some time after, Nelson’s role in exposing the hardships of the “City Slave Girls” lacks any proper representation in all realms of history. The “City Slave Girl” series is a monumental resource of information for women’s history, labor history, and the history of undercover journalism. </p>
               <p> There are three main facets of this project. First and foremost The Restoration of Nell Nelson requires a complete digitization of the three sources where Nelson’s “City Slave Girls” series were published: the originals from the Chicago Daily Times, a published book version (abridged and currently accessible to me only on microfilm ), and The White Slaves of Free America by John T. McEnnis (large snippets of the articles within the context of this pro-unionization book OCR text available courtesy of Harvard University’s Digital Library). Each of the sources provides its own hurdles in obtaining code-ready, plain text. This is the most important aspect of the project because there is currently no complete archive of this series digitally available in searchable text. The second facet of the project is the selecting of a logical tag set developed within the TEI guidelines that will govern the markup of all three sources. Finally this project intends to provide data visualizations and conclusions to research questions of related importance to the series. </p>
                <p>One of the beginning research questions posed was what kind of information was altered and excluded. Why if all of the sources were published within the same year (1888) do both of the book versions exclude important aspects used by Nelson in the original newspaper series detailing the corruption.  The analysis of the texts began questioning: what was left out and/or changed? How did the book publications provide a different variation to Nelson’s clearly disgusted image portrayed in the original Chicago Daily Times publication? In the fall of 2014 a co-editor of the project, Shane Daube, showed interest in representing the connotation of the three main character types within the series: the male personae, the female personae, and Nelson. He wanted to compare (using the minimally transcribed data in development) the three different voices and the variation of voice connotations within the original articles versus the article parts in The White Slaves of Free America.  Using XQuery and SVG Shane developed a graph visualization that provided interesting conclusions in regard to the extreme alterations made between versions.  He provided variation data that otherwise would only have been derived and made obvious after thorough investigation of both sources. As for the fall of 2015 The Restoration of Nell Nelson project is still in progress. Current focus continues to be centered on the first two facets of the project; however, the transcription of more articles and book chapters has led to new research questions and further development of the beginning inquiries.
            </p>
            <!--<h2>Digital Humanities: 2015 Project Development</h2>
                <p>
                    In the Fall semester of 2015, the Restoration of Nell Nelson main project goal was to move into the TEI Namespace. After moving into the TEI, the project intends to maintain the goals laid out in 2014 while adjusting those goals in accordance with the selected TEI tag sets.  
                </p> 
            <h2>Digital Humanities: 2014 Project Development</h2>
                <p>
                    <b>Research Question -\-\-</b> In 1888, the <i>Chicago Daily Times</i> published Nell Nelson's "City Slave Girls" Series with the intention to expose the corruption and inhumane conditions of Chicago Industrialization. In the same year, two books were written incorporating almost entire articles of the series; however, both of the book versions exclude important aspects used in the newspaper series to reveal the horrid truths behind Chicago's corrupt industries. The data collection used on this webpage should illustrate what kind of information was altered and excluded. Therefore, we question: 1. What was left out and/or changed? 2.How did the book publications change the clearly, disgusted image portrayed in the orignial <i>Chicago Daily Times</i> publication?
                </p> 
                <b>Project Goals/Timeline -\-\-</b> 
                <ul>
                    <li>Determine important tags that will define the changes and deletions between versions.</li>
                    <li>Code the Articles from the original publication of the series.</li>
                    <li>Code the Book Chapters of the McEnnis Text and take note of the changes between the original articles and where the articles are referenced in the chapters.</li>
                    <li>Use XSLT to display text-only on website (including drawing tables thatexpand on the ones that are in the original text of chapter 1).</li>
                    <li>After noticing the interesting connotations of femVoice, mascVoice, and nellVoice decided to use XQuery to determine the number of times each connotation is used by each voice and the differences between each voice's representation of said connotations in the McEnnis text versus the original publication (document in table format).</li>
                    <li>Use SVG in XQuery to graph the various voices and various connotation occurances in both the book and articles -\- graph displays how certain connotations are taken out in the book that are very present in the original articles.</li>
                    <li>To further support the censorship of the book article-references use image-mapping to tag all the location addresses named in the articles that are all left out in the book text (have XQuery table of name "identified" vs name="unidentified" showing the general names used in the books for locations and companies versus the specific names and locations used in the original articles.</li>
                    <li> Use javascript to toggle the type of workingConditions focused on in the McEnnis Text (in the the preface of the McEnnis text it is emphasized that the purpose of revealing these truths were to agitate for change. This will be used in later project development to compare to the newspaper's headlines in another comparison of what is different between the two.</li>     
                </ul>
<b>Project Goals/Timeline -\-\-</b> 
                <ul>
                    <li>Determine important tags that will define the changes and deletions between versions.</li>
                    <li>Code the Articles from the original publication of the series.</li>
                    <li>Code the Book Chapters of the McEnnis Text and take note of the changes between the original articles and where the articles are referenced in the chapters.</li>
                    <li>Use XSLT to display text-only on website (including drawing tables thatexpand on the ones that are in the original text of chapter 1).</li>
                    <li>After noticing the interesting connotations of femVoice, mascVoice, and nellVoice decided to use XQuery to determine the number of times each connotation is used by each voice and the differences between each voice's representation of said connotations in the McEnnis text versus the original publication (document in table format).</li>
                    <li>Use SVG in XQuery to graph the various voices and various connotation occurances in both the book and articles -\- graph displays how certain connotations are taken out in the book that are very present in the original articles.</li>
                    <li>To further support the censorship of the book article-references use image-mapping to tag all the location addresses named in the articles that are all left out in the book text (have XQuery table of name "identified" vs name="unidentified" showing the general names used in the books for locations and companies versus the specific names and locations used in the original articles.</li>
                 <li> Use javascript to toggle the type of workingConditions focused on in the McEnnis Text (in the the preface of the McEnnis text it is emphasized that the purpose of revealing these truths were to agitate for change. This will be used in later project development to compare to the newspaper's headlines in another comparison of what is different between the two.</li>     
             </ul>-->
             <p>
                 <b>Future Development of Scholarship:</b> As The Restoration of Nell Nelson project continues into its second year of website progression and third year of in-depth research/investigation new questions for future scholarship also are developing. Students of the University of Pittsburgh at Greensburg Digital Humanities course in the fall of 2015 have shown interest in making further visual analysis of the versioning between texts. Once the archival aspects of the project are complete and the entirety of all the sources are available there will be many opportunities for more research questions to develop. With each new research question there is prospect for increased data visualizations and more in depth conclusions.  As this project grows the editors would like the opportunity to work with the original copies of the newspaper articles. Before completion of the archived material there is hope to re-photograph the articles and render better images of them to display on site alongside the transcriptions.  The transfer from the project-specific, RelaxNG schema to working under the TEI is a large step the project is currently taking in order to expand the utility and value of the project  within existing  digital humanities’ scholarship
            </p> 
            <h2>Background Information</h2>
            <p><b>Nell Nelson:</b> Helen Cusack-Carvalho used the pseudonym Nell Nelson when she wrote the "City Slave Girls" series in 1888. She was employed by the <i>Chicago Daily Times</i> and then later, following the success of her series in Chicago, hired by New York's <i>The World</i>. The biographical information on Helen Cusack-Carvalho is considerably illusive and currently anything remotely close to a complete biography of her is nonexistent. The primary source of biographical information comes from a <a href="http://www.emeraldinsight.com/doi/abs/10.1108/17511341211188655">journal article by Eric W. Liguori published in 2012</a>. In this article, Liguori alludes that Helen was born into the middle-class and that her career as a journalist allowed for her to maintain this status. Liguori reports that Helen married above her social class to a man named Solomon Solis Carvalho in 1895. After marriage, Helen's journalism career ceased to exist and she lived the remainder of her life raising their two daughters. According to an obituary found in a 1945 <i>New York Times</i>' publication Helen died in New Jersey. The obituary lacks any special recognition of her investigative series despite the popularity and influential effects it had on the labor reforms of the late nineteenth century.</p>
            <p><b>“City Slave Girls” Exposé:</b> The "City Slave Girls" series ran daily on the front-page of <i>The Chicago Daily Times</i>. The first article was published on July 30th, 1888 and the concluding article was published on September 3rd, 1888.  Helen Cusack-Carvalho posed as Nell Nelson, a poor female working girl. She reported in-depth on the living conditions, wages, and work environments associated with nineteenth century industialization. The early publication of the series places 'Nelson' as a pioneer of investigative reporting. 'Nelson' provided ground-breaking work in exposing the mistreatment of the women and children that worked in Chicago’s manufacturing industries. The success of her series is a bewilderment considering the extensive inversion of social norms represented in the writing of her exposé. The “City Slave Girls” series put into question the practices of the most prestigious men of Chicago; yet, 'Nell Nelson' was a woman unable to even vote due to the gender restraints of her time. Through her satirical and witty writing, 'Nelson' beat the adversity of being a woman in the nineteenth century and the publication of the series gained attention from Chicago’s political representatives along with the owners of the very industries she scrutinized.  After the intial publication of the series, two books were printed within the same year recognizing 'Nelson' and her investigative  work. In addition to the two books, Nelson was hired by <i>The World</i> to reproduce a similar series in New York. Although the significance of the series was recognized at the time of publication and for some time after, Nelson’s role in exposing the hardships of the “City Slave Girls” lacks any proper representation in history as of today. The “City Slave Girl” series should be a monumental resource of information for women’s history, labor history, and the history of undercover journalism.</p>
            <h2>Source Information</h2>
            <ul title="sources">
               <li>Nell Nelson. “City Slave Girls.” <i>Chicago Daily Times</i> (Chicago, IL), July 30-August19, 1888 and August 26-27, 1888. 
                <br/>Accessed via the <a href="http://dlib.nyu.edu/undercover/city-slave-girls-nell-nelson-chicago-times-aka-white-slave-girls-new-york-world">NYU digital library</a>.</li>
               <li>Nell Nelson [pseud.]. <i>The White Slave Girls of Chicago.</i> (Chicago, IL: Berkley Publishing Co., 1888).
                <br/>Available on microfilm: History of Women: No. 3519. (New Haven, CT: Research Publications Inc., 1976).</li>
               <li>John T. McEnnis. <i>The White Slaves of Free America.</i> (Chicago, IL: R.S. Peale &amp; Company, 1888). 
                <br/>Available online courtesy of <a href="http://nrs.harvard.edu/urn-3:FHCL:225494">Harvard University’s digital library</a>.</li>
            </ul>

            <h2>Project Team</h2>
            <ul title="projectTeam">                
                <li><b>Chief Editor:</b>Rebecca Parker is a student at the <a href="http://www.greensburg.pitt.edu/">University of Pittsburgh at Greensburg</a>. She is a double major of English Literature and Social Sciences. Rebecca's area of focus within the Social Sciences is History and she is on track to receive the <a href="http://greensburg.pitt.edu/academics/info/digital-studies">Digital Studies Certificate</a>. The Restoration of Nell Nelson is a project Rebecca began research for during the Spring 2014 Semester, for her history capstone. Rebecca's interest in Digital Humanities stemmed from her involvement on the <a href="http://mitford.pitt.edu/">Digital Mitford Project</a> working as <a href="http://www.pitt.edu/~ebb8/">Dr. Beshero-Bondar</a>'s Green Scholar. Rebecca is an active member of <a href="http://www.english.org/sigmatd/">Sigma Tau Delta</a> and <a href="http://www.phikappaphi.org/">Phi Kappa Phi</a>.
                </li>
                <li><b>2015 Editor:</b>Robert Spadafore is a student at the <a href="http://www.greensburg.pitt.edu/">University of Pittsburgh at Greensburg</a>.</li> 
                <li><b>2015 Editor:</b>Cody Karch is a student at the <a href="http://www.greensburg.pitt.edu/">University of Pittsburgh at Greensburg</a>. </li>
                <li><b>2015 Editor:</b>Kari Womack is a student at the <a href="http://www.greensburg.pitt.edu/">University of Pittsburgh at Greensburg</a>.</li>
                <li><b>2015 Editor:</b>Robert Carlson is a student at the <a href="http://www.greensburg.pitt.edu/">University of Pittsburgh at Greensburg</a>.</li>
                <li><b>2014 Editor:</b>Shane Daube is a graduate ('14) of the <a href="http://www.greensburg.pitt.edu/">University of Pittsburgh at Greensburg</a>. He is a Psychology major looking to pursue a master's degree in Clinical Psychology or a related field. Shane became a member of this project when he took Pitt-Greensburg's <a href="http://www.pitt.edu/~ebb8/DHDS/Fall2014-DHSyll.html">Digital Humanities Class</a> in Fall of 2014.  He worked to help Rebecca transcribe, markup, and XQuery the Nell Nelson articles from The Chicago Daily Times and also the chapters of the McEnnis text.
                </li>
                
            </ul>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>